How people with Disabilities use Digital Technology.
Perception - hearing, feeling and seeing.
When content is accessible,
people can perceive it through different senses,
depending on their needs and preferences.
For example,
some people who can't see a screen
or hear audio,
rely on websites and apps
that can present the information
in different ways.
People who are blind may
use assistive technology
on computers and mobile phones
called screen readers.
These software tools
read the information on the screen out loud,
or they can present it in braille.
Bird.
Birds are a group of warm-blooded vertebrates
constituting the class Aves,
(/’eIvi:z/)
characterised by feathers, toothless beaked jaws, the laying of
Screen readers process websites and apps
with correctly coded headings,
lists, links, buttons, and other structures much better.
People who are blind rely on hearing or touch,
rather than sight.
For video,
content creators need to ensure
that visual information is provided
in auditory form as well.
Often these descriptions
of visual information can be placed
in existing pauses in the audio,
or the script can be created
from the start with sufficient description
of the scenes, characters,
and other important visual information.
People who are deaf-blind
also use screen readers to present the information
using a device called a
Refreshable Braille display.
Braille characters are a combination
of raised or lowered dots,
which people read by scanning over them
with their fingertips.
Similarly to people who are blind and deaf-blind,
people who are Deaf or hard of hearing
may use haptic feedback too;
for example, through vibration alerts on a mobile phone
instead of auditory notifications.
People who are Deaf or hard of hearing
often rely on seeing instead of hearing.
For example, while watching a video
they may use captions or sign language
as an alternative to the audio.
You can help
make technology
accessible
to me.
Accessibility: It's about people.
For more information from the Web Accessibility Initiative
on how people with Disabilities use Digital Technology
visit w3.org/WAI/people